Creating the azure account:- requirements

1. New mail id(Outlook)
2. Credit card or Debit card(Only some debits cards are accepted)
3. In this process 2 Ruppess are dedected from your card and witin 72 hours it will credited again to your account.


Note:- On-Prem means (Non Cloud)

---> After creating the azure account, if we want to see the subscription status then go to search bar and search for subscription.

Azure Active directory:-

1. Create a user accounts.
2. Manage user accounts.
3. Assign licenses to users and groups.
4. Reset the passwords.
5. Deploy any software.

---> Identify the management capabilites that enables you to securely manage access to azure services and resources for your users.

Azure Active directory editions:-
1. Free
2. Microsoft 365 services
3. Premium P1
4. Premium P2

Creating the Azure User :-

1. Login to azure ---> Goto search and type azure active directory.

2. On leftside we find manage tab on that there is users option.

3. Open users tab and we find new user press that and we find to options 1. create new user, 2. Invite external user.

4. select create new user option and fill the template and press create.

Assigning roles to created user:-

1. Goto ---> Azure active directory ---> USers ---> Select the user ---> Assigned roles ---> Add assignments.


Creating the groups :-

Note:- Before creating the groups we have the enable the P2 or enterprise edition.(Choose P2 edition).

---> To enable that we have to goto AAD ---> Manage tab ---> Licenses ---> All products ---> Try/Buy ---> Select and activate

1. Login to azure ---> Goto search and type azure active directory.

2. On leftside we find manage tab on that there is groups option.

3. Open groups tab and we find new group press that.

---> When we press new group this take us to new window. There are four options 1. group Type --> Select security , 2.Group Name ---> Enter the group name, 3. Group description ---> Fill that(This is Optional), 4. Membership Type ---> In this there are three options they are:-  Assigned,Dynamic User,Dynamic device.

---> Now we have to add the dynamic query.

---> After selecting the dynamic query there are some configure rule just fill them.By selecting the Add Expression option. when we done with filling those just give a click on rule syntax then automatically expression is generated. 


---> Dynamic query is nothing but we have assign manually.

4. select the save option then the query is saved, If we want to edit dynamic query we can do so.

5. If everything is fine then select the create option then new group is created.
